---
title: "Patch Release 1.3.4"
date: 2019-06-07T10:39:06+02:00
draft: false
---

This is yet another patch release for the 1.3 series of  **{{% allpix %}}, version 1.3.4**. It contains 18 additional commits over 1.3.3 with a few fixes and improvements. The release is available from the [repository](https://gitlab.cern.ch/allpix-squared/allpix-squared/) as of now.

The following issues have been resolved and improvements have been made:
<!--more-->

* **Core:**
    * The offset to electric fields is now applied in positive direction instead of negative. This solves a problem with the calculation of the field on the very first pixel column and row. For more information, see the [merge request](https://gitlab.cern.ch/allpix-squared/allpix-squared/merge_requests/211).
    * The SensorCharge Object was lacking the implementation of the `getGlobalPosition()` member which has been added now.
* **Module: ProjectionPropagation:** Similar to GenericPropagation, the total time for evaluating charge positions can now be limited using the `integration_time` parameter. The total drift time for all charge carriers is histogrammed for reference if `output_plots = true` is set.
* **Module: ElectricFieldReader:** The module throws an error in case negative offsets for the field are used.
* **Module: VisualizationGeant4:** The display limit for Geant4 rendering objects can now be configured via the `display_limit` parameter. The default changed from previously 500k to one million objects now.
* **Manual:** Added additional DOIs for several references.
