---
title: "Patch Release 2.1.1"
date: 2021-12-21T19:06:44+01:00
draft: false
---

We hereby announce the first patch release for the 2.1 series of **{{% allpix %}}, version 2.1.1**.
This release contains 29 commits over the feature version 2.1.0.
The changes mostly concern the conversion and reading of field meshes.
The release is available as Docker image, CVMFS installation, binary tarball and source code from the [repository](https://gitlab.cern.ch/allpix-squared/allpix-squared/).

The following issues have been resolved and improvements have been made:
<!--more-->

* **Core**
   * Modules provide a better error message when a file cannot be accessed, detailing which file is affected.
   * The handling of output files from modules has been improved to correctly resolve absolute paths. A warning is printed if absolute paths outside the current simulation output folder are specified.
   * The special case of an output file being an already existing directory is now correctly handled.
   * The `FieldParser` class now correctly obeys the template parameter provided to read the field data.
   * Field maps in the APF file format are now also cached by the `FieldParser` and not re-read when requesting the same field from another module.
   * File paths to field data are now properly canonicalized before using them, making sure the file exists and is accessible.
* **Continuous Integration:** All tests are now forced to contain either a `PASS` or `FAIL` condition, so we don't just accidentally run {{% allpix %}} without checking the result at all.
* **Module DopingProfileReader:** A bug in the field offset calculation has been fixed. The offset was applied as absolute values instead of fraction of the pixel pitch as documented.
* **Module ElectricFieldReader:** The direction of the electric field with type `CONSTANT` is now correctly inferred from the applied bias voltage -  a minus was missing.
* **Module PulseTransfer:** When building pseudo-pulses from charge carrier arrival time, the sign of the respective charge is now taken into account, correctly producing positive or negative pulses.
* **Mesh Converter**
   * The parameter `observable_units` does not have a default value anymore - this forces the user to set the expected units explicitly to avoid wrong conversions.
   * The default values of the parameters `region` and `observable` have been removed to force setting them explicitly in the configuration file.
   * It is now possible to control the verbosity level from the configuration file using the well-known `log_level` parameter.
