---
title: "Allpix Squared 2.0 Released"
date: 2021-06-10T15:42:10+02:00
draft: true
---

We are happy to announce the second major release **{{% allpix %}}, version 2.0.0**.
This version contains XXX commits over thre previous patch release 1.6.2.

It features a major rework of the framework core, introducing an efficient multithreading functionality including full reproducibility.
In addition, a large number of features as well as changes to the core and the CI have been implemented.

The release is available as Docker image, CVMFS installation, binary tarball and source code from the [repository](https://gitlab.cern.ch/allpix-squared/allpix-squared/).

The release benefits from the work of XXX contributors, of which XXX are first-time contributors.
Furthermore it is to a substantial part the result achieved by two Google Summer of Code students.

{{% allpix %}} has been extended by the following features and changes:
<!--more-->

### Multithreading

#### Event Parallelisation


#### Event-based Seeding



### Framework Core

#### C++17

The requirement on the C++ standard was increased from `C++14` to `C++17`.
With this, several workarounds were removed and replaced by simpler `C++17` specific methods.

#### Boost Random Number Generator

As one piece of the puzzle of the full reproducibility of simulations, the C++ STL random number generator was replaced by the implementation provided with the Boost.Random library.
This implementation is platform independent and therefore enables reproducibility across all platforms.

This implicates a dependency of {{% allpix %}} on Boost.Random, which is available for all common platforms.

#### Unused Configuration Keys

The user is now made aware of unused configuration keys, hinting at unintended configuration scenarios or potential typos in the simulation's main configuration file.


### Charge Carrier Recombination

All available propagation modules, `GenericPropagation`, `ProjectionPropagation` and `TransientPropagation` have been extended by the functionality of charge carrier recombination, where the lifetime of any charge carrier is derived from the doping concentration of the sensor.

For the determination of the charge carrier lifetime, three models have been implemented, to be selected by the user: the Shockley-Read-Hall model, the Auger model, which applies to minority charge carriers only, and a combination of these two, for which the minority charge carrier lifetime follows the Auger model and majority charge carriers follow the Shockley-Read-Hall model.

At every step of the charge carrier propagation, the survival probability of a charge carrier is evaluated by comparing the duration of the time step to the lifetime provided by the above mentioned models.


#### New Module: DopingProfileReader

A new module called `DopingProfileReader` has been added, allowing the user to define the position dependent doping concentration of the sensor.

The doping profile can be provided in three ways:
 * A constant doping concentration can be defined for the entire sensor volume.
 * Several regions of different doping concentrations can be defined via a segmentation along the sensor depth.
 * A three-dimensional map can be parsed from files in the APF or INIT formats, which can also be used for the electric field and the weighting potential maps.

The use of this module is required for the simulation of a charge carrier recombination.


### Front-End saturation in `DefaultDigitizer`

A very simple front-end saturation simulation has been added to the `DefaultDigitizer`.

With this feature enabled, pixel charge values above a configurable saturation limit are replaced by a value drawn from a Gaussian distribution with a mean at the saturation limit and a configurable width.


### Mobility Models

Additional mobility models have been added to the framework.
{{% allpix %}} now comprises the following mobility models:
 * Jacoboni-Canali model: previously used model and enabled by default.
 * Canali model: differs from the above in a single parameter.
 * Hamburg model: based on measurement on drift velocities.
 * Hamburg high-field model: differs from the above in the parameters, validated for electric fields of above 2.5~kV/cm.

The user can select the desired mobility model from within the charge carrier propagation module configuration, while the previously used Jacoboni-Canali model remains the default option.


### Physics Models

Several physics models have been disentangled from the simulation modules.
For this, the respective methods to determine model parameters have been extracted from the individual module and implemented as separate classes.
This avoids duplication of code and entails a more coherent use of these models throughout the different modules, for which the individual models can be enabled via a parameter in the corresponding configuration section.

Currently, charge carrier mobility and lifetime models are provided.


### Analytic Electric Fields

More complex, analytic electric fields can be defined by the module `ElectricFieldReader`.
In addition to the three-dimensional map and the analytic linear and constant electric field profiles, the user can now choose a parabolic parametrisation, as well as provide a custom analytic parametrisation.
The latter features either one- or three-dimensional electric field vectors provided in ROOT's TF1 syntax.


### New Example: EUDET-type beam telescope + DUT


### Model XXX in `CSADigitizer`
!455

### Continuous Integration

#### Module Tests

The module test configurations have been moved into the respective module directories, which should provide a better overview over which module an individual test is probing.

#### Linting & Formatting for `CMake`

New formatting rules have been introduced for `CMake` files.
Formatting tests have been introduced within the Continuous Integration.

### Additional Features & Changes

 * Passive Materials:
   * PPO foam added
   * Fix in definition of cellulose
   * Added option to define the object colour for the visualisation
 * `PulseTransfer`
   * Add maps of induced charge per event
 * CI:
   * Tests now fail in case of `WARNING`, `ERROR` or `FATAL` log messages
   * Update to LCG version LCG_99
   * Update to Geant4 10.7
 * `DepositionReader`:
   * Fix generation of `MCParticle` objects
   * Add module tests based on the python tool for the generation of deposits
 * `CSADigitizer`:
   * Fix global time calculation
   * Fix handling of uninitialised pulses
 * Tools:
   * `MeshConverter`: Cache parsed fields for more efficient conversion
   * `MeshPlotter`: Fix slicing for two-dimensional fields
 * `DepositionGeant4`:
   * Add possibility for uniform beam profile
   * Fix beam divergence in case of beam direction not pointing along the z-axis
 * Core:
   * Introducing `enum` reflection for module configuration parameters
   * Catch `SIGABRT` signal used by Geant4 in case of exceptions
 * `DepositionPointCharge`:
   * Make number of charge carriers created per unit length configurable
 * `TransientPropagation`:
   * Fix double counting effect of induced current in case of propagations around the border of a pixel cell
 * `EelctricFieldReader`:
   * Fix missing of z scale for field representations
   * Warn at unphyiscally high electric fields
 * 