---
title: "Patch Release 1.6.1"
date: 2021-01-28T17:51:11+01:00
draft: false
---

We are happy to announce the first release of 2021, the patch release **{{% allpix %}}, version 1.6.1** which contains 30 commits over the feature version 1.6.
It fixes a few corner cases concerning the very late arrival of particles from Geant4 and the handling of Monte Carlo particle information.
This patch release contains patches from one new contributor - welcome to the team!

The release is available as Docker image, CVMFS installation, binary tarball and source code from the [repository](https://gitlab.cern.ch/allpix-squared/allpix-squared/).

The following issues have been resolved and improvements have been made:
<!--more-->

* **Build system:**
    * {{% allpix %}} can now be built in a build-tree and CMake allows overwriting of options via variables.
    * The `make` target name for the code reference changed from `reference` to `Allpix-reference` to avoid name collisions with other packages in a build tree
    * The scripts provided with the git hooks now also work with git versions < 2.13
* **Core:** Fix issue in the thread pool which prevented exceptions thrown in module `run` functiosn to be properly propagated to the module manager.
* **Module GeometryBuilderGeant4:** Some code cleanup and optimization of the passive volume creation code.
* **Module: GenericPropagation:** Only process charge carriers within the configured integration time, ignore all others and do not add them to the `PropagatedCharge` vector.
* **Module: TransientPropagation:** Only process charge carriers within the configured integration time, ignore all others and do not add them to the `PropagatedCharge` vector.
* **Module: DepositionGeant4:** Energy deposits and MCParticles arriving past the `cutoff_time` are now ignored.
* **Module DepositionReader:** Fix access of vector after `move` operation which resulted in not dispatching the MCParticle message.
