---
# SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2018 CERN and the Allpix Squared authors
# SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0
title: "Patch Release 1.2.2"
date: 2018-09-10T09:30:52+02:00
draft: false
---

Once more we are happy to announce another patch release for a stable release of **Allpix Squared**. This is the second patch release of the 1.2 series, **version 1.2.2** and is available from the [repository](https://gitlab.cern.ch/allpix-squared/allpix-squared/) as of now.

The following changes have been incorporated:
<!--more-->

* **General:** Allpix Squared is now C++17-compliant and should compile with any new version of the supported compilers. C++17 compiler support is only enabled if dependent packages such as ROOT require it.
* **Module: MagneticFieldReader** - The local magnetic field for each detector is now correctly translated to the local coordinate system. Before this fix, rotations where not taken into account and the magnetic field in local coordinates (as used for the Lorentz drift) had the same values as in global coordinates. A unit test for this has been added.
* **Module: ROOTObjectReader** - a new configuration key `ignore_seed_mismatch` allows to disable checking for mismatches of the core random seeds from configuration and input data file. This should be used with care and only if the core generators are not to be used (e.g. when only performing the last step of the digitization).
* **Packaging:** The *recoverConfiguration.C* ROOT macro is now shipped in the distributed tarballs.
* **Continuous Integration:** Deployments of the *latest* version to CVMFS, EOS and as Docker image are now performed as scheduled nightly build every day. This ensures that always an up-to-date version of the master branch is available everywhere. In addition, the deployment scripts have been improved, fixing some issues with CVMFS transactions and a slightly altered GitLab API.
* **Manual:** Many small changes, including updated description of the Continuous Integration stages as well as the deployment strategy of nightly builds, some extension of the Frequently Asked Questions, minor typo fixes and an update of the acknowledgments.
