---
# SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2018 CERN and the Allpix Squared authors
# SPDX-License-Identifier: CC-BY-4.0
title: "Patch Release 1.1.1"
date: 2018-03-08T10:26:54+01:00
draft: false
---

We are happy to announce the first patch release of the new stable series, **Allpix Squared version 1.1.1**. The release is available as

* Source code from the [repository](https://gitlab.cern.ch/allpix-squared/allpix-squared/tags/v1.1.1)
* Binary tarballs for CERN CentOS7 and Scientific Linux CERN 6 from the [website](https://cern.ch/allpix-squared/releases/)
* As directly usable [CVMFS installation](https://cern.ch/allpix-squared/usermanual/allpix-manualch10.html#x11-16300010.4.1) for LXPLUS machines or any other CERN machine.

The main work in the last weeks went into improving our continuous integration and to provide ready-to-use binaries and installations.

The following changes have been incorporated:
<!--more-->

* **Core: PropagatedCharge Object** - fix missing check for `nullptr`, if no MC particle was attached to the deposited charge object, the program would SEGFAULT. Thanks to Thomas Billoud, Université de Montréal, for reporting and fixing this issue!
* **Core: Objects** - refrain from using `TRefArray` as is creates problems with missing links between objects in the simulation history in certain circumstances. Replaced with `std::vector<TRef>` which has proven to be more robust.
* **Core: Executable** - new command line argument `--version` to just print the current version and build date and exit.
* **Module: GeometryCunstructionGeant4** - Tungsten is now available as material for support layers. To be used e.g. as absorber in a silicon sampling calorimeter.
* **Tools: TCAD Converter** - fix issue when parsing TCAD regions with certain names, improve debug printout and error messages. Also more strictly obey the header format of INIT files.
* **Continuous Integration** - add new deployment targets for CVMFS and EOS. New versions are automatically added to the CLICdp CVMFS space and published as tarball on the website.
* **Manual:** some improvements in the readability of the geometry description chapter, updated information on release packaging and continuous integration.
